Friends, I bet you've been seeing a lot
of these. The alligator graph, it's a
graph where clicks and impressions
diverge. And it's because the age of
zero click, everything is here. The
traffic that you used to get from
Facebook, from Twitter, from LinkedIn,
from Reddit, from Pinterest, from
YouTube, it's all going down. Google, of
course, as well, the AI tools are
keeping all the traffic for themselves,
zero click, everything. And so, you get
this alligator graph and everybody is
seeing it. And what I've been hearing
is, "Hey, Rand, you keep talking about
how in this world we have to measure
influence rather than attribution.
Don't tell me that. Tell me exactly what
I need to measure. Otherwise, I will
never get budget for anything again."
Okay. So, let's let's let's go back for
a second and I'm going to walk you
through that. I think it's a fair
question I want to answer. So this
classic buyer journey, right, as
imagined by marketers, it has like the
top of the funnel where your audience
learns about the problems that you
solve. And then potential customers are
engaging and interacting with your
brand, learning more, and then
essentially they're deciding whether
they're going to buy from you or anybody
or your competitors.
I admit it's kind of a terrible metaphor
today because buyer journeys don't look
like this. They look like a pinball
machine, right? You get shot out of
there. You're like bouncing around
social media. You ask a friend, you
visit pricing pages and read news and
skim blog posts and consume podcasts and
YouTube channels and you read a white
paper and get a demo and then there's
email newsletters, right, that bounce
you back up. So pinball, not funnel, I
agree. But where funnel is useful is for
measurement. At the top of the funnel,
you can still measure things that are
useful, right? Like whether somebody
viewed your social media post, right?
number of impressions that this video
gets on social channels or on our
website. It'll be in both places. Uh
whether people were exposed to a brand
advertisement, if you if you can measure
that, there's some companies doing this,
right, with like uh billboard, you know,
they they try and do eye tracking to see
that. Whether they saw your brand in
search results or AI tool results, the
impressions number, right, that you're
getting from Google and these other
places. And then there's middle of
funnel like replies and engagements and
people who Google your brand. That's
that's in the middle of the funnel most
of the time. People who clicked on your
results, that's in the middle of the
funnel. And at the bottom, they they
followed you, they subscribed to your
newsletter, they added a product to the
shopping cart, right?
So, the way that you measure in 2025
is not trying to attribute every sale
that you got to some number of
contributing channels and then waiting
them and using a machine learning
system. No, that is that is dumb. It
doesn't work for a million reasons.
attribution
it dead. Don't don't forget right the
Apple cookie change, the anti-tracking
privacy laws, the ad blocker adoption
which is at 40% plus multi-device
journeys which are 100% domination of
apps which you can't see data inside of
zeroclick consumption on every single
platform way before people get to you
and dark traffic that's missing referral
data and a ton of other things. You're
never going to get it. The way you
measure in 2025
is you use liftbased testing. You can do
it with geography, reasonable, time
series testing, also reasonable. There's
lots of other s similar segmentation.
That's the smart way to do it. What do I
mean when I say that? Lift-based testing
is here's the simplest example, right?
You're CocaCola.
You're going to run two billboards in
very demographically similar cities and
then you're going to measure in a 5, 10,
25 mile radius whether same store sales
lifted more in one region than another.
They're all getting the same television
ads and radio ads and the rest of the
Coke branding series, but these two
billboards are different. And you have
measured that, you know, highway A in
region one gets about as much traffic as
highway two in region B. Great.
Fantastic. That's liftbased measurement.
And then you you take the winning one
and you go verify. You run it in a bunch
of other cities. Same thing you can do
in digital marketing. This is not just
an offline tactic. It's not just a
tactic from 1965. It's a 2025 tactic.
For example, I we're doing terribly. I'm
embarrassed to show you this, but look,
I have started putting my fiveminute
whiteboards and my other short videos
onto YouTube. They have performed
horribly for me on YouTube. I haven't
done much with them, but but we can see
as you know at at the top we can see
like impressions for these YouTube
things through the channel uh metrics
that YouTube provides. Then we can see
views. Then we can see uh whether
traffic to our website is lifted. Do
people type in Spark Toro more to Google
and come to the site? Does that brand
lift happen? I hope in a year or two or
three after these videos do well that we
will see that it will perform, but it
will not be because we can tell that
they came from YouTube. The only way
we'll be able to see it is in our uh
brand numbers, right? In in those kinds
of metrics. The way I show impact is
testbased measurement, right? It is it
is liftbased.
I run tests. I see lift. Amanda does the
same thing. So, we have things like
brand interest, you know, over a
three-month trend. We can see our
numbers. We know what historically it
looks like. We know what the growth rate
should look like. We can see social
engagement and subscribers. We can see
website traffic. Yes, traffic is a
number. It's in the middle of the funnel
for us, but it's a real thing. Homepage
probably matters more to us. Product
page matters more. Blog posts, not so
much. That might be top of funnel for
us. And then there's subscribed
audience. People who subscribed to our
email newsletter, followed us on a
social channel, maybe subscribed to
that, you know, YouTube channel. And
then sales at the bottom. So top,
middle, bottom, sales. You have these
two. They're going to be different for
every different one. The metric you
should use, unfortunately, is I cannot
tell you. I can't tell you. No one can
tell you. Your company, depending on
your channels, your goals, your
campaign, it's going to be unique.
Broadly, it's going to look like this.
At the top, you're going to see metrics
that show initial exposure to your
brand, right? That could be things like
um number of people who saw your
LinkedIn posts. Uh for us, that's a big
one. And we definitely look at LinkedIn
impressions. It could be people who saw
your YouTube views. It could be people
who drove by your billboard on the
highway or listened to a radio station
at a time. Maybe it's share of market.
You all that kind of stuff. Initial
exposure. Then it's some kind of
engagement. You know, for us that's like
a subscriber or a reply to us uh or
someone signing up for the the email,
the blog email. And then metrics that
suggest a deeper interest like they they
come to Spark together, they um you know
are they've signed up for a free
account, a free Spark Toro account. You
know, we have a forever free account
system. And then at the bottom, it's
sales and conversions. Yours is going to
look different. I can't tell you what
yours is going to be. You have to build
it for yourself. But you can measure
these things. You can show the trend
over time. You can build the graphs. And
then you can do liftbased investing and
testing which is the only way to really
test to know whether a marketing channel
or tactic is performing for you in 2025.